# Project-Hackfest
India is the second largest populated country. With such a large population, it is difficult for the police force to maintain law and order. This project aims to build a simple application and online portal to help in reduction of crime rates in the country. The police needs the help of ordinary citizens to function efficiently which can be made possible with this simple application. We aim to minimize the communication gap between ordinary citizens and the police force. With a few button clicks, people would be able to report any suspicious person or victim that they find anywhere. So, next time if you see any suspicious person or a child begging, all you need to do is click his/her photo and upload it on the app. Functioning:  There will be two logins- police and citizen.  Police department will maintain the criminal database and missing person database.  Citizens can report any suspicious person by uploading his/her photo and related information (missing/criminal category).  Accordingly, the photograph will be matched with the entries in police database (missing or criminal database).  If match is found, the location of their device will be detected and alert will be sent to nearest police station immediately.  Further, there will be an emergency button, by pressing which nearest police station will be alerted about an emergency. Technology used:  Image processing and face recognition (face detection ,face registration, feature extraction algorithms)  Web development (html, css ,bootstrap, javascript, php , mysql, jquery)  Android app development  Big Data  Google map API
